So we are fetching our data
but as I mentioned at the end of the last lecture,
we are of course not showing any loading
or error state at the moment
and that's not necessarily the behavior we want.
Instead, we might want to only load this list of meals here,
once we really got a list of meals.
And to achieve this, we need to manage more our state
and now since we will have related state,
we could also consider using use reducer for that
but I'll stick to three individual use state pieces.
I will add isLoading
state
and a set IsLoading state updating function
and initially it's false, initially we're not loading.
But in use of fact,
at the beginning of this fetchMeals function,
I wanna call setIsLoading and set this to true,
because now we clearly are loading.
Of course, since we know that
right when this component will be rendered,
we will be loading,
we could also consider not setIsLoading to true here,
but instead setting the initial state to true,
because we know that we always will start
with loading data in this component
when the component is rendered.
And therefore in this case, that's fine.
Of course, if you have a component
where that's not necessarily the case,
where you're not necessarily loading
just because the component was created for the first time,
there you might not want to set this
but here, it should be fine.
Now we wanna set IsLoading to false once we're done.
So in the end, once we also set the meals,
we wanna set IsLoading to false
because we now definitely are done loading.
And now we can use setIsLoading to control what we render.
And we could say, that we don't wanna render
our meals at all.
So this entire section should not be rendered at all
if we're loading.
So, for that, we can simply check, if IsLoading is true
and I checked this before I tried to map my meals.
Before I do any of that I check if IsLoading is true.
And if it is true, I will return something else
in this functional component.
So then we don't even make it to the code down there.
And I'll return a section here,
where I simply have a paragraph where I say, "loading"
like this.
If we add that code,
you will see, there is this loading text on the left,
briefly showing up when we reload this.
And that's of course, not the best way to to show it
and therefore let's style it by adding a class name here
of classes.MealsLoading,
like this maybe
and then we can dive into this
available meals module CSS file
and quickly add a class selector
for the meals loading class,
where we set text align to center
and set the color to white.
Of course, you can definitely give this
a more elaborate styling
but it's better than nothing.
Because with this class added here
and assigned here to this section,
with those changes made if I reload,
we at least have the loading text here.
And it's still only flashing for a brief moment
because Firebase has a quick back end
but it's better than nothing.
Of course here, we could consider
omitting this loading state
since the data is loading rapidly quickly
but of course, we don't know which internet connection
our end users might have,
so showing this loading state might not be too bad
but actually there it was showing up a bit longer.
So that is not too bad.
But what if we have an error we should also work on that.